סטרא אחרא,The Other [wild/evil] Side, מסטרא אחרא זה,This is from the other perspective,
בודאי,Certainly,בודאי שהדבר צריך יון נוסף,Certainly this matter requires further examination,
הכי נמי,It is really so,הכי נמי דאמר רב אשי,It is really as Rav Ashi said,
אע״פ,(אף על פי) Even though,אע״פ כן צריך לברך עליו, Even though this is so one needs to recite a blessing over it,
איתא,There is, איתא בברייתא,It is taught in a baraita,
על פי,According to,על פי הדברים האלה כרתי אתכם ברית,According to these words I have made a covenant with you,
רישא,The beginning/top,רישא דמתניתא קתני הכי,The beginning of the Mishnah teaches thus,
פליג,Argue, פליג עליה,He disagrees with him,
משא״כ,(מה שאין כן) Which is not the case,בשבת אסור לעשות מלאכה משא״כ בחול,On Sabbath it is forbidden to do work,
לאפוקי,To exclude,תנא בתרא הוא דאתא לאפוקי,It is the last Tanna that he comes to exclude / ...Tanna that comes to exclude it,
א״ע,(את עצמו/ה) Itself/oneself,חיבק א״ע מרוב שמחה,He hugged himself from joy,
דמי,It is similar to,הא דמי להא דאמרינן בפרק קמא,This is similar to what we said in the first chapter,This is also one with several test words. Ha has many meanings. Maybe there could be a multiple choice question on Ha.. 
גמרא,Gemara,גמרא: מנא הני מילי?,The Gemara asks: From where do we derive these matters?,
יחוד,Unification,יחוד השם הוא תכלית כל המצוות,The unification of God's name is the purpose of all commandments,
הלכתא,(Aramaic) The law,הלכתא כוותיה דרבי יהושע,The law follows Rabbi Yehoshua,
ותו,And furthermore; and more,ותו לא והא קמ״ל,"And no more!? But behold, it comes to teach...","This is one that AI got wrong. I put in the correct translation. They'd need to know that the ""ve'ha"" means behold and signals a challenge... "
סוף דבר,The conclusion,סוף דבר הכל צפוי והרשות נתונה,The conclusion is everything is foreseen yet free will is given,
מותר,Permitted,מותר לעשות מלאכה זו בשבת,It is permitted to do this work on Shabbat,
אלא מאי,But rather what?,אלא מאי איכא למימר?,But rather what is there to say?,
אהבת השם,Love of God,העבודה צריכה להיות מתוך אהבת השם ויראתו,Service must be performed out of love of God and fear of Him,
הואיל,Since, הואיל וטמא טמא,"Since he declared it (or somehow made it) impure, it is (thus) impure","This is confusing. Maybe ""Since it's impure, it's impure. Maybe just find a different example."
אמנם,Indeed, אמנם הכא שאני,However here it is different,
מנא,From where?,מנא לן דבעי כוונה?,From where do we [know] that intention is required?,
מידי,Something like,מידי דהוה אכל הנך דרבנן,Something like all those [cases] of the Rabbis,
תיקו,Let it stand [unresolved],תיקו עד שיבא אליהו ויתרץ כל הקושיות,Let it stand until Elijah comes and resolves all difficulties,
פטור,Exempt,פטור מן התפילה בעת הדחק,Exempt from prayer in times of distress,
ג״כ,(גם כן) Also,הדין נוהג בגוים ג״כ,This law applies to non-Jews as well,
לא שנא,It makes no difference,לא שנא איש ואשה בדבר זה,It makes no difference [between] man and woman in this matter,
היינו,Is equal to; that is, היינו דאמר רבא,This is the same as what Rava said,
הכי,Thus,הכי גרסינן במתניתא,This is how we learn it in the Mishnah,
